posts/WK2-A_What-Is-Cute.md, before:

---
title: "Week 2a: What is Cute?"
published_at: 2025-03-11
snippet: I explore the idea of 'Cuteness', and how to measure it
disable_html_sanitization: true
allow_math: true
---
Today in class i was asked a question that i've never thought to phrase before.. **What is cute?**  
Well, I can list things that i find cute: Kittens, Puppies, Quokkas, i could go on, but the question still stands. **What is cute?**.
![Quokka](Wk-2A/Quokka.jpg)
<small> I love quokkas so much. Read more about them [Here](https://wwf.org.au/blogs/8-interesting-facts-about-quokkas/)! </small>
## What Makes these Things Cute?
In a more abstract way of answering the question, i can look at things that i find cute and their attributes. What do they have in common?  
- They are cute because they are **small**
- They are cute because they are **fluffy**
- They are cute because they are **energetic**
Well, you get the point. But we can go one step further: **What is similar in these attributes?**  
  
Well, they can all be pooled into a similar place on the **Aesthetic Register**
## What's an 'Aesthetic Register?'  
In its essence, an Aesthetic Register measures an object's ability to make someone **feel** something based on where it sits on a 'scale' of sorts. 
It's easy to think of it with a visual example.  
Look at these two drawings
![Eye comparison](Wk-2A/Cute-Vengeful-Eyes.png)
Its pretty easy to choose one that looks cuter to you, but why?
the cat, with its big eyes is **rounder** and **softer**. it's head is out of proportion with its body, and its eyes out of proportion with its head.  
On the other hand, the sketch of the eye on the right almost feels **hateful**, or at the very least **aggressive**, and we feel this way about the eye because of its sharp corners, tight appearance and inward slant.  
They are both, undoubtably eyes, but they make us feel different based on **their Properties**.

These **Properties** represent different weights on the **Aesthetic Register**, and the presence or definition of these properties influence our perception and emotions as we experience something.  

These weights on a register are not absolute however, and each person might experience them differently from someone else, based on their biases and expectations.

## How can i use this 'Register' in my P5.js Sketches?

Commit message:

Whoops, forgot to commit a bunch over time. Here it all is

posts/WK2-A_What-Is-Cute.md, after:

---
title: "Week 2a: What is Cute?"
published_at: 2025-03-11
snippet: I explore the idea of 'Cuteness', and how to measure it
disable_html_sanitization: true
allow_math: true
---
Today in class i was asked a question that i've never thought to phrase before.. **What is cute?**  
Well, I can list things that i find cute: Kittens, Puppies, Quokkas, i could go on, but the question still stands. **What is cute?**.
![Quokka](Wk-2A/Quokka.jpg)
<small> I love quokkas so much. Read more about them [Here](https://wwf.org.au/blogs/8-interesting-facts-about-quokkas/)! </small>
# What Makes these Things Cute?
In a more abstract way of answering the question, i can look at things that i find cute and their attributes. What do they have in common?  
- They are cute because they are **small**
- They are cute because they are **fluffy**
- They are cute because they are **energetic**
Well, you get the point. But we can go one step further: **What is similar in these attributes?**  
  
Well, they can all be pooled into a similar place on the **Aesthetic Register**
# What's an 'Aesthetic Register?'  
In its essence, an Aesthetic Register measures an object's ability to make someone **feel** something based on where it sits on a 'scale' of sorts. 
It's easy to think of it with a visual example.  
Look at these two drawings
![Eye comparison](Wk-2A/Cute-Vengeful-Eyes.png)
Its pretty easy to choose one that looks cuter to you, but why?
the cat, with its big eyes is **rounder** and **softer**. it's head is out of proportion with its body, and its eyes out of proportion with its head.  
On the other hand, the sketch of the eye on the right almost feels **hateful**, or at the very least **aggressive**, and we feel this way about the eye because of its sharp corners, tight appearance and inward slant.  
They are both, undoubtably eyes, but they make us feel different based on **their Properties**.

These **Properties** represent different weights on the **Aesthetic Register**, and the presence or definition of these properties influence our perception and emotions as we experience something.  

These weights on a register are not absolute however, and each person might experience them differently from someone else, based on their biases and expectations.

# How can i use this 'Register' in my P5.js Sketches?
Whatever direction i go down, it's important that i constantly refer back to this register in every decision i make. Programatically in P5, i can make good use of rounded edges and things that move slowly, and i would be wise to avoid jittery movements or sharp edges for that matter.  

Well, at least that covers the visual design, but there is still interaction and sound design to worry about. For sound design, i plan to source sounds that people might find relaxing. I don't know if there are any sounds that are universally described as 'cute' but following that cute things are often soft and slow, the descriptor of calm seems to fit here.  

Lastly, the interactions in my sketch must feel natural and intuitive. It's a bit hard to recall any digital or computer interactions i have had that were cute in the sense of the interaction itself, but i want to make sure that, following the logic proposed everywhere else in this blog post, it is smooth and subtle, but not overwhelmingly noticeable that it takes away from the visual and auditory experience of my sketch.
